Parking lot help request button (NF6) (#32)
blues/app-accelerators: parking-lot-help-request/README.md

# Parking Lot Help Request

Host-free low latency notification system to alert attendants in a parking lot or facility that customers need assistance. To run this project youself you'll need to:

* [Purchase the necessary hardware and configure it](#hardware).
* [Configure Notehub](#notehub).
* [Configure the project's Notecard](#notecard-firmware).
* [Set up a Twilio account and configure the data to route from Notehub to Twilio](#twilio-firmware).
## Hardware

The following hardware is required to run the Parking Lot Help Request application.

* [Notecarrier A with pre-soldered headers](https://shop.blues.io/products/carr-al)

> * [Notecard LTE Cat-1](https://shop.blues.io/products/note-wbna-500) (for use in North America)

Reviewer: Not sure we want to make this NA only. Maybe we could just say that you need a cellular Notecard, and say that Cat-1 is highly recommended?

Author: Very good suggestion. Thanks

* [Sparkfun RGB LED breakout - WS2812B](https://www.sparkfun.com/products/13282)
* [Twidec 12mm momentary push button with pre-soldered wires](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B08JHW8BPV/ref=ppx_yo_dt_b_asin_title_o00_s00?ie=UTF8&th=1)
* [LiPo battery](https://www.adafruit.com/product/2011)

> * [Solar panel with JST connectors (any of these are compatible)](https://www.seeedstudio.com/catalogsearch/result/?q=solar%20panels)

Reviewer: Might be worth saying which specific one you used. “Any of these work. We went with the ...”

Author: Done.

* [Breadboard](https://www.adafruit.com/product/64)

> * [Male to male jumper wires](https://www.adafruit.com/product/758)

Reviewer: Male-to-male

* [Break-away 0.1" pin strip male headers](https://www.adafruit.com/product/392)

### Hardware Assembly 

1. After purchasing your hardware, use the [Notecard and Notecarrier Quickstart documentation](https://dev.blues.io/quickstart/notecard-quickstart/notecard-and-notecarrier-a/) to assemble your Notecarrier A and Notecard - don't worry too much over connecting to Notehub: this document will cover it shortly.

> 1. Break off 3 male pins in a strip and solder to each side of the Sparkfun LED breakout. (This [video from Adafruit](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z0joOKaQ43A&ab_channel=AdafruitIndustries) provides a good example of how to solder male pins to a board like the one the LED comes in.)

Reviewer: Maybe worth having a picture of the breakout with the pins soldered on to drop at this point.

Author: Good suggestion

1. Cut a male jumper wire in half and use a wire stripper to strip at least 1/2" of coating off of both the ends of the jumper wire and each wire connected to the Twidec push button. Also snip off the soldered tip of the button's wires so the filaments are free floating.
![Twidec button and jumper wire both stripped down to expose their wires for soldering](images/readme-wires-to-solder.jpg)
_Notice that both the button and jumper wires are exposed for soldering, also there's a length of heat shrink on both button wires that will be used to cover the soldered portion of wire later._

1. Use the "Western Union" X-style of wire wrapping to join the exposed jumper wires together with the Twidec wires and solder them together.
![Freshly soldered jumper wire and button wire](images/readme-wires-soldered.jpg)
_A helping hand tool made soldering the jumper wire and button wire together much easier._

> 1. Optional: Add a small sleeve of heat shrink tubing to each wire before soldering together and after soldering's complete, slide the heat shrink over the exposed wires and use a heat gun to shrink the wrap and protect the wires from the elements. (A great video that shows how do all of this, [wires to heat shrink, is available here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Zu3TYBs65FM&ab_channel=ChrisFix).)

Reviewer: The first sentence in this needs more punctuation or a bit of a rewording.

Author: Good suggestion.

![Button with heatshrink in place awaiting heatgun application](images/readme-heatgun.jpg)
_The heat shrink has been shifted over the newly soldered wires - now to shrink it with an application of the heat gun._
![The button after heatgun application: nice, new jumper wires on each end](images/readme-heatshrink.jpg)
_The finished button with its newly added jumper wires on each end, and a protective coat of heat shrink to hide the wires._

1. Slide the LED into a breadboard.
![Sparkfun LED breakout slotted into a standard breadboard](images/readme-led-breadboard.jpg)
1. Attach the Notecarrier A to the breadboard by plugging a jumper wire from the A's `GND` pin to the `-` bus on the breadboard.
![Attach a jumper wire from Notecarrier A's GND pin to the breadboard's negative bus](images/readme-notecarrier-breadboard.jpg)
_Notecarrier A's GND pin to breadboard's negative bus (-)._

1. Attach the Notecarrier A to the LED breakout by plugging jumper wires into its headers in the following configuration:
   1. `VIO` -> `V5`
   1. `AUX2` -> `DI`

>    1. `-` -> `GND` (this will be a wire in the negative bus (`-`) of the breaboard to the `GND` pin in the LED)

Reviewer: Maybe use emoji arrows here? As is, `-` -> `GND` is a bit difficult for my brain to parse since the same dash is in there twice.

Author: 👍  ➡️

![Jumper wires from Notecarrier A connecting it to the LED via jumper wires into the breadboard](images/readme-led-notecarrier.jpg)
_Notecarrier A VIO pin to V5, AUX2 pin to DI, and negative bus to GND of LED breakout._ 

1.  Attach the newly soldered button wires to the Notecarrier and breadboard:
    1. Red wire -> `AUX1` on the Notecarrier A

>     2. Black wire -> `-` (negative bus) on the breadboard

Reviewer: Same comment here on the arrows. There’s actually a unicode arrow you could use too →.

Author: ➡️

![Creating a project in Notehub with a name](images/readme-notehub-project.png)

Once your project's created, copy the product UID down somewhere: you'll need it to program the Notecard in the next section.

### Optional: Grouping Devices By Fleet

Notehub has the option to store groups of devices by fleets, which is useful 
for organizing similar groups of devices and storing project settings that need to be shared and synchronized across devices.

For this project, you can group devices by something like "Lot Location", simply by updating a project's [fleet](https://dev.blues.io/reference/glossary/#fleet)
name, and assigning devices to that fleet.

Notehub creates an initial default fleet for you when you start a new project, and you
can use that as your starting point.

1. Inside your Notehub project, navigate to your fleet in the navigation menu, and then click the **Settings** link.
![Location of Notehub fleet settings](images/readme-notehub-fleets.png)

1. Inside Settings, change the Fleet name input to something more useful (like "Lot L" for all devices in that particulat lot)
![How to rename a fleet name in Notehub](images/readme-notehub-fleet-names.png)

> 1. Then click on the **Devices** link to see all the devices associated with that Notehub project, and simply update the fleet that device is assigned to by using the dropdown.

Reviewer: ~simply~

Author: removed

![Assign device to particular fleet in Notehub](images/readme-notehub-device-to-fleet.png)

1. You can also rename the device from this page if you need to update its parking spot number in the same way.

With this your Notehub backend is fully configured, and you’re ready to start
setting up your Notecard.

## Notecard Firmware

> Although this is a "host-free" project because the Notecard itself can be configured to send notes to Notehub when the button is pressed, the Notecard still needs to be programmed to do so.

Reviewer: As a suggestion (and this is possibly for the Hackster writeup and not here), it might be worth being very explicit about what host-free means, and getting excited about it—because it’s kind of cool you can do all of this without a host, and you can save $$$ if you’re putting a bunch of these in parking lots.

Author: Good call. I'll emphasize more

* [LiPo battery](https://www.adafruit.com/product/2011)
* [Solar panel with JST connectors (any of these are compatible)](https://www.seeedstudio.com/catalogsearch/result/?q=solar%20panels) (This [3W model](https://www.seeedstudio.com/3W-Solar-Panel-138X160.html) is the one used in the project)
* [Breadboard](https://www.adafruit.com/product/64)
* [Male-to-male jumper wires](https://www.adafruit.com/product/758)
* [Break-away 0.1" pin strip male headers](https://www.adafruit.com/product/392)

### Hardware Assembly 

1. After purchasing your hardware, use the [Notecard and Notecarrier Quickstart documentation](https://dev.blues.io/quickstart/notecard-quickstart/notecard-and-notecarrier-a/) to assemble your Notecarrier A and Notecard - don't worry too much over connecting to Notehub: this document will cover it shortly.
1. Break off 3 male pins in a strip and solder to each side of the Sparkfun LED breakout. (This [video from Adafruit](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z0joOKaQ43A&ab_channel=AdafruitIndustries) provides a good example of how to solder male pins to a board like the one the LED comes in.)

> ![NeoPixel with male pins soldered onto the underside of it](images/readme-soldered-led.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![NeoPixel with male pins soldered onto the underside of it](images/readme-soldered-led.jpg)
```

Author: Yes, good catch

_These pins will allow the LED to sit in a breadboard and easily interact with the Notecarrier through jumper wires._
1. Cut a male jumper wire in half and use a wire stripper to strip at least 1/2" of coating off of both the ends of the jumper wire and each wire connected to the Twidec push button. Also snip off the soldered tip of the button's wires so the filaments are free floating.
![Twidec button and jumper wire both stripped down to expose their wires for soldering](images/readme-wires-to-solder.jpg)
_Notice that both the button and jumper wires are exposed for soldering, also there's a length of heat shrink on both button wires that will be used to cover the soldered portion of wire later._

> 1. Use the "Western Union" X-style of wire wrapping to join the exposed jumper wires together with the Twidec wires and solder them together.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Use the "Western Union" X-style of wire splicing to wrap the exposed jumper wires together with the Twidec wires and solder them together.
```

maybe include a photo like this so one doesn't have to google it.
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/22032748/198330691-a0041c2c-06ff-49fb-b6d0-c58614881e6e.png)

Author: Good suggestion. Included, thanks

![Freshly soldered jumper wire and button wire](images/readme-wires-soldered.jpg)
_A helping hand tool made soldering the jumper wire and button wire together much easier._

> 1. Optional: Add a short piece of heat shrink tubing to each wire before soldering the wires together. After soldering is complete, slide the heat shrink down over the exposed wires and use a heat gun to shrink the wrap down to and protect the wires from the elements. (A great video that shows how do all of this, [wires to heat shrink, is available here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Zu3TYBs65FM&ab_channel=ChrisFix).)

Author: TIL electrical tape in lieu of heat shrink. Good to know!

![Button with heatshrink in place awaiting heatgun application](images/readme-heatgun.jpg)
_The heat shrink has been shifted over the newly soldered wires - now to shrink it with an application of the heat gun._
![The button after heatgun application: nice, new jumper wires on each end](images/readme-heatshrink.jpg)
_The finished button with its newly added jumper wires on each end, and a protective coat of heat shrink to hide the wires._

1. Slide the LED into a breadboard.
![Sparkfun LED breakout slotted into a standard breadboard](images/readme-led-breadboard.jpg)

> 1. Attach the Notecarrier A to the breadboard by plugging a jumper wire from the A's `GND` pin to the `-` bus on the breadboard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Attach the Notecarrier A to the breadboard by plugging a jumper wire from the Notecarrier A's `GND` pin to the `-` bus on the breadboard.
```

![Attach a jumper wire from Notecarrier A's GND pin to the breadboard's negative bus](images/readme-notecarrier-breadboard.jpg)
_Notecarrier A's GND pin to breadboard's negative bus (-)._

1. Attach the Notecarrier A to the LED breakout by plugging jumper wires into its headers in the following configuration:
   1. `VIO`  ➡️ `V5`
   1. `AUX2`  ➡️ `DI`

>    1. `-` ➡️ `GND` (this will be a wire in the negative bus (`-`) of the breaboard to the `GND` pin in the LED)

Author: Much clearer, thanks

![Creating a project in Notehub with a name](images/readme-notehub-project.png)

Once your project's created, copy the product UID down somewhere: you'll need it to program the Notecard in the next section.

### Optional: Grouping Devices By Fleet

Notehub has the option to store groups of devices by fleets, which is useful 
for organizing similar groups of devices and storing project settings that need to be shared and synchronized across devices.

For this project, you can group devices by something like "Lot Location", simply by updating a project's [fleet](https://dev.blues.io/reference/glossary/#fleet)
name, and assigning devices to that fleet.

Notehub creates an initial default fleet for you when you start a new project, and you
can use that as your starting point.

1. Inside your Notehub project, navigate to your fleet in the navigation menu, and then click the **Settings** link.
![Location of Notehub fleet settings](images/readme-notehub-fleets.png)

1. Inside Settings, change the Fleet name input to something more useful (like "Lot L" for all devices in that particulat lot)
![How to rename a fleet name in Notehub](images/readme-notehub-fleet-names.png)

> 1. Then click on the **Devices** link to see all the devices associated with that Notehub project, and update the fleet that device is assigned to by using the dropdown.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Then click on the **Devices** link to see all the devices associated with that Notehub project.
1. Double-click the device you're currently configuring.
1. Update the fleet that device is assigned to by using the dropdown.
```

Author: Done

![Assign device to particular fleet in Notehub](images/readme-notehub-device-to-fleet.png)

1. You can also rename the device from this page if you need to update its parking spot number in the same way.

> With this your Notehub backend is fully configured, and you’re ready to start setting up your Notecard.

Author: Nice catch

## Notecard Firmware

> This is a "host-free" project because the _Notecard itself_ can be configured to send notes to Notehub when the button is pressed. It may sound simple, but this is a pretty big deal. Typically, a host microcontroller is necessary to process logic like when a button is tapped something else (sending a note to Notehub) needs to happen, the fact that Notecard can do this without a host means big savings in terms of necessary hardware and necessary power the device needs to do its job (microcontrollers tend to be resource intensive).

Author: Much better wording, thanks

To set up the Notecard, refer to the [`README.md`](firmware/README.md) file in this project's `firmware` folder for full instructions under the [**Configure the Notecard**](firmware/README.md#configure-the-notecard) section.

## Twilio Firmware

Once help requests (button press events) are being successfully sent to Notehub from the Notecard, the requests will need to be routed out of Notehub to Twilio for SMS alerting.

> See the `firmware` folder's [`README.md`](firmware/README.md) once more for complete instructions to format the button press events and send them to Twilio. The [**Transform Notehub data with JSONata for Twilio**](firmware/README.md#transform-notehub-data-with-jsonata-for-twilio) has all the details you should need.

Author: Added
